Our project is Java Event Management System.
So for the event management like registration and add event, then payment, we are going to build one
Java application.
Four Event management.
So here we are going to use GBC, which is basically Java database connection, Java servlet, server
deployment.
To create a web application or web platform for event management system.
So let us see how we can proceed with our project.
So.
What is the event management system?
So we want to deploy a web app using Java for event registration.
So for this scenario, I'm considering university level events.
The events are which are in university.
To deploy the way back for event management with the help of Java servlet.
So steps of our development are.
First this project setup, which is we are going to basically set up our project in the ID.
Then.
Understanding different tools, which we are going to use first, their understanding then basics of
databases, how we can handle the database according to that.
First step is making connections with Java, Servlet and EBC connection and after the deployment and
debugging of our project.
So we are going to build event management system.
And we are going to develop a web app using Java for event registration at university level events with
the help of Java servlet.
So this is our basic aim, our main aim for Java servlet.
So what is the application requirement so that we can survey the application requirements?
Java program to display web contents.
Like we want to display some web contents through the Java program.
So you should have the basic knowledge about Java, who the Java language is like methods, classes,
predefined methods, so we can use our method and everything and some basic concepts of fuel.
So it's clearly basic language used in database for create tables inserting data.
So we are going to use a square insect Java program to perform all the database actions.
You should know a little bit about HTML and CSS for the front end because we are going to develop web
app with the help of this only like HTML is the frontend, but we are going to develop full backend
with the Java like adding the data to the database and fetching that data from the database.
Then website for login admin or even so, I'm considering here two scenarios.
Or we can say to use case for this application.
When is administrator?
So for the administrator, the actions are like an event or a handle that event.
Then change the details, everything.
But for the guest, they should see the log in and sign up with that.
They should find that particular event and then register for that event using payment and not considering
their full payment method like payment gateways or something.
I'm just showing the small demonstration for that.
For admin, you should do administrative actions like an event full admin control over there and they
should see all the event details who registered or all things for the guest.
They should find a register option and payment.
So this is the basic application requirements.
Before that you should require a tool or tools we require.
So we basically need Java development kit.
Here I'm going to use Java Development Kit 1.8 JDK 1.8.
Why I'm using Java 1.8 because the server which we are going to use or deploy is localhost basically
to demonstrate everything.
But it is glass server I'm going to use.
So Glass Server supports 1.8 universal.
1.8 JDK is basically for that only then ID NetBeans.
I'm going to use your Apache NetBeans.
Additionally with JDK you should you requirements is Java X Library or you can find on the internet
Java X Library.
It is popular library for school and skill statements in Java.
Then Java E Enterprise Version eight.
We are going to deploy here Oracle database or my school database.
I'm here going to use Oracle database.
Then Glass server or Tomcat server.
Remember in Tomcat server you can change the port.
Of that is a steep server, but in the glass free server you cannot change the port.
So remember http port for glass server is always a date and further scenarios.
I'm going to resolve all the issues with glass free server like there is some port misconfiguration
also there, so you have to consider that.
But before that, Tomcat server supports only Java E version seven till now.
So it is very old school enterprise edition and it does not support JDK.
So for the minimal condition you should use Glass Free Server Oracle Database, Java E, Version eight,
NetBeans ID and JDK 1.8.
These are the requirements.
So we will further proceed with how we can set up our.
The project incited a passionate.
So now we are in the Apache and once you install Apache ID 1.8.
Virgin is currently its long term stability margin here, so you can see everything here.
So first, this is this should be blank.
There should not be any project here.
So go to file, create new project.
You can see new project option here, create new project.
So it will ask for a different scenarios like here.
Also, I will increase this option.
You can see here or a different option.
Marvin And so Marvin entered the basic libraries inside Java.
You can perform Java.
Marvin Also you can see Marvin supports too many applications, but for the simple scenario we are going
to use and here with and click Java Web, you can see we have application web application with existing
sources and XML Click Web application first option here only click next.
Then you name to your application.
I'm going to put event.
Or registration.
Then you can use dedicated folder for string libraries and everything.
No need to do that because it will automatically create some dedicated folder.
Project said the project location and project folder.
You can change it, but I'm going to set default.
Then click next.
Then it will take time to create a project so you can see your option chooses not to enter an enterprise
application.
So it should be none.
You should choose Hourglass Server or Apache Tomcat, but I recommend Glass Free Server only if you
don't have a glass server.
Go to this option and then you can find your server like everything.
Amazon Server.
Glass Free Spider Server.
Choose glass free server or Tomcat then download it from here.
I already installed and download it blast free server, then click java eight web.
It is after that it is latest Java E Virgin after that Jakarta e virgin started.
So Java E eight I'm going to use here and this is the context but it should be same as your project
then hit next.
So don't click anything here and we don't need any frameworks java server for or or everything click
on finish so it will take time to create default project here.
We are going to use some default templates here basically like in Java servlet.
So it will take time to perform some actions and everything.
Once it is done, you can see in this section.
When HTML5, which is indexed or HTML, I'm going to cut this part because this is only comment.
So as you can see, this is index.html.
And in this same scenario you can see.
Everything.
Event registration.
You can see this is our project, which is we project inside this.
You can once you click this plus icon, you can see all the web pages, source packages, libraries,
configuration files here.
So we are dealing with Web pages, sources and libraries don't need to change this file.
Don't touch this file.
So this is all about our project setup.
From the folder, I'm going to tell you how we can proceed with our project.
This is setup only.
So remember in web pages folder, you should add web pages, html frontend pages, and in the source
packages you should add packages here.
Before that I will add some libraries by default libraries here.
So we need to install Java X Library, as I told you, for the scale support.
So just right click in the libraries at Java slash folder.
So I will click this slash Java slash folder.
Inside this you can see where you stored that Java X.
I will use this Java X as I told you and I will share the open.
So our library is added now so we can where this project supports a school, for instance, also.
So if you don't want to do it from here, you can go to this and go to project properties and you can
add or change everything here, as I told you.
Also for this, I'm going to use some Oracle gypsy driver.
But in further I will tell you how we can add that library also.
So this is all about our setup.
So let us deal with what is this works or how it's work.
So index today's HTML is not primary.
Don't change the name of index dot html it is loaded file or we can say loading file of our project.
So as you can see in the web pages, there are different things.
But if you go this manifest dot.
This is the what we can say.
This is the version for the loading.
If you change this to some another name, you have to change the project properties to according to
that.
So let us see how we can build this.
So I will just deploy.
With this and inside this I will print hello world.
So our deployment is very simple.
What are you going to do?
Go to this event.
Raise that project.
Clean and build.
So what?
Just build it.
What it will be.
Do.
It will show the only the building part.
But in the cleaning part it will remove the particular non usable libraries, non usable dependencies,
and it will cleanly build.
So as you can see, our build is successful and total time.
So now you can run this from the project.
From for the new project.
It will take time.
So I will show you how we can go with our.
Running time.
So wait for some time.
It will take around 2 to 3 minutes.
Once it is successful, you you can see building successful this message again and in the class server
you can see event registration is successfully deployed.
So remember if you are ordered or what we can say the port of.
The database is also 88 localhost.
You should change that port using some commands.
I will tell you further how you can change the commands there also.
So this is a date I'm going to use glass face port.
Otherwise you can change the glasses for the setup, but it takes some complicated steps or you have
to change the config files also.
So I didn't tell that part.
Instead of this, you can run single command in SQL to change that.
So once it is successfully build.
You can see in the Chrome where this registration is or we can say a project is successfully deployed.
So this is for the setup only I told you about.
I printed the hello world here and this is now printing.
So this is about index dot.
So as you can see, our index dot is HTML is loaded now.
So building successful the beautiful thing is about this is once you deploy, no need to deploy it again
and again.
You just print anything like I am printing.
This is my project or event registration.
And just click controls to save this.
Once I save this and I click reload, you can see this is again deployed.
So this is what we can say currently running.
So once you have some.
So let us see how we can see this.
So as you can see, this is done in our like this one side click control and perform this reload here,
reload again, reload here.
So as you can see, this is added.
So this is how it works.
So once you deploy it, no need to stop it or something like that.
I'm going to stop it here because it takes and it requires that put so it will slow down the system.
But once for the small, small operation, you can perform this.
And if you have some ambiguity or error in this, it will show this error in class V server and event
res also.
So this is very important in this you can if your Chrome browser or something is not opening by default,
then there is some issue with ID or your code, so no need to worry about that.
Sometimes it will happen.
So you can use this link also here this one in output.
You can see this output link here.
You can use this link to deploy that.
So that's it about our first landing or we can say the successful deployment of our of our project.
In the further I will tell you how this Java servlet is working, what is GBK then?
Everything.
There are some methods in Java Servlet also that I will tell you.
So we just saw that how we can set up our project and how we can deploy this.